# MI-BCI-by-implementing-a-frequency-band-selection
Motor Imagery-based Brain-Computer Interfaces (MI-BCI) are a promise to revolutionize the way humans interact with machinery or software, performing actions by just thinking about them. Patients suffering from critical movement disabilities, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) or tetraplegia, could use this technology to control a wheelchair, robotic prostheses, or any other device that could let them interact independently with their surroundings.

The focus of this project is to aid communities affected by these disorders with the development of a method that is capable of detecting, as accurately as possible, the intention to execute movements (without them occurring) in the upper extremities of the body. This will be done through signals acquired with an electroencephalogram (EEG), their conditioning and processing, and their subsequent classification with artificial intelligence models. In addition, a digital signal filter will be designed to keep the most characteristic frequency bands of each individual and increase accuracy significantly.

After extracting discriminative statistical, frequential, and spatial features, it was possible to obtain an 88% accuracy on validation data when it came to detecting whether a participant was imagining a left-hand or a right-hand movement. Furthermore, a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) was used to distinguish if the participant was imagining a movement or not, which achieved a 78% accuracy and a 90% precision. These results will be verified by implementing a real-time simulation with the usage of a robotic arm. 

